[Blog] OpenFaaS output type blog post ready (#415)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/falcosidekick-openfaas.md

---
title: Falcosidekick + OpenFaas = a Kubernetes Response Engine, Part 2
date: 2021-04-11
author: Batuhan Apaydın
slug: falcosidekick-openfaas
---

> We recently talked about a concept called _"Kubernetes Response Engine"_, and we achieved this by using `Falco`
> 
> + `Falcosidekick` + `Kubeless`. But as you might guess, _Falcosidekick_ project is evolving day after day, which means
>   new output are added to the project. With the
>   release [`2.22.0`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases/tag/2.22.0), we are proud to
>   support [`OpenFaaS`](https://www.openfaas.com) as a new output for _Falcosidekick_. We can achieve the same concept
>   called _"Kubernetes Response Engine"_ but this time by using _"OpenFaaS"_ instead of _"Kubeless"_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recently talked about a concept called _"Kubernetes Response Engine"_, and we achieved this by using `Falco` + `Falcosidekick` + `Kubeless`. But as you might guess, `Falcosidekick` project is evolving day after day, which means new outputs are added.
With the release [`2.22.0`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases/tag/2.22.0), we are proud to
  support [`OpenFaaS`](https://www.openfaas.com) as a new output for _Falcosidekick_. This allows us to achieve the same concept, _"Kubernetes Response Engine"_, but this time by using _"OpenFaaS"_ instead of _"Kubeless"_.
```

Author: done

In this blog post, we will explain the basic concepts for integrating your own Response Engine into K8S with the
stack `Falco` + `Falcosidekick` + `OpenFaaS`.

## Prerequisites

> We need tools with the following versions to achieve this demo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need tools with the following minimum versions to achieve this demo:
```

Author: done

* Minikube v1.19.0
* Helm v3.5.3
* kubectl v1.21.0
* arkade v0.7.13
* faas-cli v0.13.9

### Provision local Kubernetes Cluster

There are various ways to provision a local Kubernetes cluster such as, KinD, k3s, k0s, Minikube etc. We are going to

> use Minikube in this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use Minikube in this walkthrough.
```

Author: done

NAME: openfaas
LAST DEPLOYED: Sat Apr 10 21:39:37 2021
NAMESPACE: openfaas
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
NOTES:
To verify that openfaas has started, run:

  kubectl -n openfaas get deployments -l "release=openfaas, app=openfaas"
=======================================================================
= OpenFaaS has been installed.                                        =
=======================================================================

# Get the faas-cli
curl -SLsf https://cli.openfaas.com | sudo sh

# Forward the gateway to your machine
kubectl rollout status -n openfaas deploy/gateway
kubectl port-forward -n openfaas svc/gateway 8080:8080 &

# If basic auth is enabled, you can now log into your gateway:
PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret -n openfaas basic-auth -o jsonpath="{.data.basic-auth-password}" | base64 --decode; echo)
echo -n $PASSWORD | faas-cli login --username admin --password-stdin

faas-cli store deploy figlet
faas-cli list

# For Raspberry Pi
faas-cli store list \
 --platform armhf

faas-cli store deploy figlet \
 --platform armhf

# Find out more at:
# https://github.com/openfaas/faas

Thanks for using arkade!
```

> Verify if everything is working before moving onto the next step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check if everything is working before moving to the next step:
```

Author: done

```shell
$ kubectl get pods --namespace openfaas
NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
alertmanager-74f9b48464-7gvrj        1/1     Running   0          2m13s
basic-auth-plugin-54bbd886f5-fclgn   1/1     Running   0          2m13s
gateway-6f8f5d5c87-tbxns             2/2     Running   0          2m13s
nats-695bf7587-hcbc2                 1/1     Running   0          2m13s
prometheus-577c65f58c-4nvm7          1/1     Running   0          2m13s
queue-worker-b45b85966-g7kpt         1/1     Running   0          2m13s
```

> Now, it is time to deploy our function. The function we are going to deploy is basically receives events for an infected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, it is time to deploy our function. The function we are going to deploy basically receives events for an infected
```

Author: done

> pod from the _Falcosidekick_ and deletes this infected pod immediately. Before deploying the function we need some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pod from the _Falcosidekick_ and deletes it immediately. Before deploying the function we need some
```

Author: done

permissions to delete Pod. We create a `ServiceAccount` with right to delete a Pod in any namespace, and we'll associate
it to our function:

```shell
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: falco-pod-delete
  namespace: openfaas-fn
---
kind: ClusterRole
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: falco-pod-delete-cluster-role
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "delete"]
---
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: falco-pod-delete-cluster-role-binding
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: falco-pod-delete-cluster-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: falco-pod-delete
    namespace: openfaas-fn
EOF
```

> Now, we are ready to deploy our _falco-pod-delete_ function, before doing that we need to log into _OpenFaaS Gateway_
> first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we are ready to deploy our _falco-pod-delete_ function, log in into _OpenFaaS Gateway_ first:
```

Author: done

```shell
$ kubectl port-forward -n openfaas svc/gateway 8080:8080 &
$  PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret -n openfaas basic-auth -o jsonpath="{.data.basic-auth-password}" | base64 --decode; echo)
$echo -n $PASSWORD | faas-cli login --username admin --password-stdin
Calling the OpenFaaS server to validate the credentials...
credentials saved for admin http://127.0.0.1:8080
```

## Install Falco + Falcosidekick

Firstly, we'll create the namespace that will host both `Falco` and `Falcosidekick`:

```shell
$ kubectl create namespace falco
```

We add the `helm` repo:

```shell
$ helm repo add falcosecurity https://falcosecurity.github.io/charts
"falcosecurity" has been added to your repositories
$ helm repo update
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "falcosecurity" chart repository
...Successfully got an update from the "openfaas" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
```

In a real project, you should get the whole chart with `helm pull falcosecurity/falco --untar` and then configure
the `values.yaml`. For this tutorial, will try to keep thing as easy as possible and set configs directly

> by `helm install` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by passing arguments to `helm install` command line:
```

Author: done

```shell
$ helm upgrade --install falco falcosecurity/falco --namespace falco \
--set falcosidekick.enabled=true \

> --set falcosidekick.config.openfaas.gatewayservice="gateway" \
> --set falcosidekick.config.openfaas.gatewaynamespace="openfaas" \
> --set falcosidekick.config.openfaas.functionname="falco-pod-delete" \
> --set falcosidekick.config.openfaas.functionnamespace="openfaas-fn"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--set falcosidekick.config.openfaas.functionname="falco-pod-delete"
```
Other values are by default now

Author: done

```

You should get this output:

```shell
Release "falco" does not exist. Installing it now.
NAME: falco
LAST DEPLOYED: Tue Apr 13 10:49:49 2021
NAMESPACE: falco
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
NOTES:
Falco agents are spinning up on each node in your cluster. After a few
seconds, they are going to start monitoring your containers looking for
security issues.

No further action should be required.
```

And you can see your new `Falco` and `Falcosidekick`pods:

```shell
$ kubectl get pods --namespace falco
NAME                                   READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
falco-falcosidekick-7779579477-mwsb4   1/1     Running   0          67s
falco-falcosidekick-7779579477-n5v89   1/1     Running   0          67s
falco-p97rw                            1/1     Running   0          67s
```

> The argument `falcosidekick.enabled=true` is going to enable following arguments by default:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The argument `falcosidekick.enabled=true` sets the following settings for falco for you:
```

Author: done

```shell
--set falco.jsonOutput=true \
--set falco.httpOutput.enabled=true \

> --set falco.httpOutput.url=http://falcosidekick:2801

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--set falco.httpOutput.url=http://falco-falcosidekick:2801
```

Author: done

```

The

> arguments `--set falco.jsonOutput=true --set falco.httpOutput.enabled=true --set falco.httpOutput.url=http://falcosidekick:2801`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
arguments `--set falco.jsonOutput=true --set falco.httpOutput.enabled=true --set falco.httpOutput.url=http://falco-falcosidekick:2801`
```

Author: done

> are there configuring the format of events and the URL where `Falco` will send them. As `Falco` and `Falcosidekick` will
> be in the same namespace, we can directly use the name of the service (`falcosidekick`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are there to configure the format of events and the URL to which `Falco` will send them. As `Falco` and `Falcosidekick` will
be in the same namespace, it can directly use the name of the service (`falco-falcosidekick`) above `Falcosidekick` pods.
```

Author: done

We check the logs:

```shell
$ kubectl logs deployment/falcosidekick -n falco
Found 2 pods, using pod/falcosidekick-5c696d7fd8-9bnnj
2021/04/10 19:21:55 [INFO]  : Enabled Outputs : [OpenFaaS]
2021/04/10 19:21:55 [INFO]  : Falco Sidekick is up and listening on :2801
````

`OpenFaaS` is displayed as enabled output, everything is good 👍.

## Install our OpenFaaS function

> Our really basic function will receive events from `Falco` thanks to `Falcosidekick`, check if the triggered rule is *
> Terminal Shell in container* (
> See [rule](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/blob/0d7068b048772b1e2d3ca5c86c30b3040eac57df/rules/falco_rules.yaml#L2063))
> , extract the *namespace* and *pod name* from fields of events and delete the according pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our really basic function will receive events from `Falco` thanks to `Falcosidekick`, check if the triggered rule is *
[Terminal Shell in container*](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/blob/0d7068b048772b1e2d3ca5c86c30b3040eac57df/rules/falco_rules.yaml#L2063)
, extract the *namespace* and *pod name* from the fields of events and delete the according pod:
```

Author: done

| | | | '_ \ / _ \ '_ \| |_ / _` |/ _` \___ \
| |_| | |_) |  __/ | | |  _| (_| | (_| |___) |
 \___/| .__/ \___|_| |_|_|  \__,_|\__,_|____/
      |_|

Function created in folder: falco-pod-delete
Stack file written: falco-pod-delete.yml

Notes:
You have created a new function which uses Golang 1.13.

To include third-party dependencies, use Go modules and use
"--build-arg GO111MODULE=on" with faas-cli build or configure this
via your stack.yml file.

See more: https://docs.openfaas.com/cli/templates/
For detailed examples:
https://github.com/openfaas-incubator/golang-http-template

$ tree -L 2 .
.
├── falco-pod-delete
│ └── handler.go
├── falco-pod-delete.yml
└── template
    ├── golang-http
    └── golang-middleware
```

First, replace the _falco-pod-delete.yml_ with the following content:

```yaml
version: 1.0
provider:
  name: openfaas
  gateway: http://127.0.0.1:8080
functions:
  falco-pod-delete:
    lang: golang-middleware
    handler: ./falco-pod-delete
    image: devopps/falco-pod-delete:latest # be careful this line, it should be your docker id.
    annotations:
      com.openfaas.serviceaccount: falco-pod-delete
    build_args:
      GO111MODULE: on
```

> Once you have edited it, let's continue with the code, first we should create `go.mod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have edited it, let's continue with the code, create a `go.mod.
```

Author: done

    body, _ := ioutil.ReadAll(r.Body)

    json.Unmarshal(body, &alert)

    podName := alert.OutputFields.K8SPodName
    namespace := alert.OutputFields.K8SNsName

    log.Printf("Deleting pod %s from namespace %s", podName, namespace)
    kubeClient.CoreV1().Pods(namespace).Delete(context.Background(), podName, metaV1.DeleteOptions{})
  }

  w.WriteHeader(http.StatusOK)
  w.Write([]byte("OK"))
}
```

After that, update your _Go Modules_ by doing `go mod tidy`:

```shell
$ go mod tidy
go: finding module for package k8s.io/client-go/rest
go: finding module for package k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1
go: finding module for package k8s.io/client-go/kubernetes
go: downloading k8s.io/client-go v0.21.0
go: downloading k8s.io/apimachinery v0.21.0
go: found k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1 in k8s.io/apimachinery v0.21.0
go: found k8s.io/client-go/kubernetes in k8s.io/client-go v0.21.0
go: found k8s.io/client-go/rest in k8s.io/client-go v0.21.0
go: downloading k8s.io/api v0.21.0
go: downloading golang.org/x/net v0.0.0-20210224082022-3d97a244fca7
go: downloading sigs.k8s.io/structured-merge-diff/v4 v4.1.0
go: downloading golang.org/x/term v0.0.0-20210220032956-6a3ed077a48d
```

> Now, you should be able to build, push and deploy your function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you should be able to build, push and deploy your function with `faas-cli`:
```

Author: done

Building: devopps/falco-pod-delete:latest with golang-middleware template. Please wait..
#1 [internal] load build definition from Dockerfile
#1 sha256:8cd765381aabb90df3bcfbc06f4d175af37d66b85125d463585abc1fc878b94b
#1 transferring dockerfile: 1.81kB done
#1 DONE 0.0s
...

Use 'docker scan' to run Snyk tests against images to find vulnerabilities and learn how to fix them
Image: devopps/falco-pod-delete:latest built.
[0] < Building falco-pod-delete done in 1.31s.
[0] Worker done.

Total build time: 1.31s

[0] > Pushing falco-pod-delete [devopps/falco-pod-delete:latest].
The push refers to repository [docker.io/devopps/falco-pod-delete]
8096edd09fbc: Layer already exists
464d68aca3d9: Layer already exists
e4766ea46ad0: Layer already exists
5f70bf18a086: Layer already exists
a823d50a5b72: Layer already exists
060f21486264: Layer already exists
8ea3b23f387b: Layer already exists
latest: digest: sha256:f94abba203232b97cb2873ef5d60eec31b52d492f3d3ee106d6a9877bf131d95 size: 1782
[0] < Pushing falco-pod-delete [devopps/falco-pod-delete:latest] done.
[0] Worker done.

Deploying: falco-pod-delete.

Deployed. 202 Accepted.
URL: http://127.0.0.1:8080/function/falco-pod-delete
```

> Verify if everything is working before moving onto the next step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify if everything is working before moving to the next step:
```

Author: done

{"output":"19:27:21.038853452: Notice Unexpected connection to K8s API Server from container (command=handler k8s.ns=openfaas-fn k8s.pod=falco-pod-delete-7dc9f5fbb8-gbfk7 container=12fc4de5ccc3 image=devopps/falco-pod-delete:latest connection=172.17.0.9:43812->10.96.0.1:443) k8s.ns=openfaas-fn k8s.pod=falco-pod-delete-7dc9f5fbb8-gbfk7 container=12fc4de5ccc3","priority":"Notice","rule":"Contact K8S API Server From Container","time":"2021-04-10T19:27:21.038853452Z", "output_fields": {"container.id":"12fc4de5ccc3","container.image.repository":"devopps/falco-pod-delete","container.image.tag":"latest","evt.time":1618082841038853452,"fd.name":"172.17.0.9:43812->10.96.0.1:443","k8s.ns.name":"openfaas-fn","k8s.pod.name":"falco-pod-delete-7dc9f5fbb8-gbfk7","proc.cmdline":"handler"}}
```

For `Falcosidekick`:

```shell
$ kubectl logs deployment/falcosidekick --namespace falco

> 021/04/10 19:27:21 [INFO]  : OpenFaas - Post OK (200)

Author: done

2021/04/10 19:27:21 [INFO]  : OpenFaas - Function Response : OK
2021/04/10 19:27:21 [INFO]  : OpenFaas - Call Function "falco-pod-delete.openfaas-fn" OK
..
```

For _falco-delete-pod_ function:

```shell
$ faas-cli logs -f --name falco-pod-delete
2021/04/10 19:34:03 Deleting pod alpine from namespace default
2021/04/10 19:34:03 POST / - 200 OK - ContentLength: 2
```

## Conclusion

> With this really simple example, we only scratched the surface of possibilities, everything is possible now, so don't
> hesitate to share with us on Slack (https://kubernetes.slack.com #falco) your comments, ideas and successes. You're also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this really simple example, we only scratched the surface of possibilities, so don't
hesitate to share with us on Slack (https://kubernetes.slack.com #falco) your comments, ideas and successes. You're also
```

Author: done

---
title: Falcosidekick + OpenFaas = a Kubernetes Response Engine, Part 2
date: 2021-04-11
author: Batuhan Apaydın
slug: falcosidekick-openfaas
---

We recently talked about a concept called _"Kubernetes Response Engine"_, and we achieved this by

> using `Falco` `Falcosidekick` + `Kubeless`. But as you might guess, _Falcosidekick_ project is evolving day by day,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using `Falco` + `Falcosidekick` + `Kubeless`. But as you might guess, _Falcosidekick_ project is evolving day after day,
```

> which means new output types is adopting to the project. With the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which means new outputs are added to the project. With the
```

> release [`2.22.0`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases/tag/2.22.0), we are proud of being
> support [`OpenFaaS`](https://www.openfaas.com) as a new output type of _Falcosidekick_, which means now, we can achieve
> the same concept called _"Kubernetes Response Engine"_ but this time by using _"OpenFaaS"_ instead of _"Kubeless"_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
release [`2.22.0`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases/tag/2.22.0), we are proud to
support [`OpenFaaS`](https://www.openfaas.com) as a new output for _Falcosidekick_. We can now achieve
the same concept called _"Kubernetes Response Engine"_ but this time by using _"OpenFaaS"_ instead of _"Kubeless"_.
```

Author: done

In this blog post, we will explain the basic concepts for integrating your own Response Engine into K8S with the
stack `Falco` + `Falcosidekick` + `OpenFaaS`.

## Prerequisites

We need tools with the following versions to achieve this demo:

* Minikube v1.19.0
* Helm v3.5.3
* kubectl v1.21.0
* arkade v0.7.10
* faas-cli v0.13.9

### Provision local Kubernetes Cluster

> There various ways to provision a local Kubernetes cluster such as, KinD, k3s, k0s, Minikube etc. We are going to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are various ways to provision a local Kubernetes cluster such as, KinD, k3s, k0s, Minikube etc. We are going to use
```

Minikube in this guide.

> Lets provision a local Kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's get provisionned a local Kubernetes cluster:
```

```shell
$ minikube start --cpus 3 --memory 8192 --vm-driver virtualbox
😄  minikube v1.19.0 on Darwin 10.15.7
✨  Using the virtualbox driver based on user configuration
👍  Starting control plane node minikube in cluster minikube
🔥  Creating virtualbox VM (CPUs=3, Memory=8192MB, Disk=20000MB) ...
🐳  Preparing Kubernetes v1.20.2 on Docker 20.10.4 ...
    ▪ Generating certificates and keys ...
    ▪ Booting up control plane ...
    ▪ Configuring RBAC rules ...
🔎  Verifying Kubernetes components...
    ▪ Using image gcr.io/k8s-minikube/storage-provisioner:v5
🌟  Enabled addons: storage-provisioner, default-storageclass
🏄  Done! kubectl is now configured to use "minikube" cluster and "default" namespace by default

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

```

## Install OpenFaaS

> OpenFaaS can be deployed to a variety of container orchestrators such as Kubernetes, OpenShift, Docker Swarm or to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenFaaS can be deployed into a variety of container orchestrators like Kubernetes, OpenShift, Docker Swarm or into a
```

Author: done

single host with faasd.

> Follow the official documentation
> for [deploying OpenFaaS to Kubernetes](https://docs.openfaas.com/deployment/kubernetes/) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the official documentation
for [deploying OpenFaaS to Kubernetes](https://docs.openfaas.com/deployment/kubernetes/).
```

Author: done

> The fastest option would be the tool called [arkade](https://github.com/alexellis/arkade) to deploy OpenFaaS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fastest option is the tool called [arkade](https://github.com/alexellis/arkade) to deploy OpenFaaS:
```

Author: done

kubectl port-forward -n openfaas svc/gateway 8080:8080 &

# If basic auth is enabled, you can now log into your gateway:
PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret -n openfaas basic-auth -o jsonpath="{.data.basic-auth-password}" | base64 --decode; echo)
echo -n $PASSWORD | faas-cli login --username admin --password-stdin

faas-cli store deploy figlet
faas-cli list

# For Raspberry Pi
faas-cli store list \
 --platform armhf

faas-cli store deploy figlet \
 --platform armhf

# Find out more at:
# https://github.com/openfaas/faas

Thanks for using arkade!
```

Verify if everything is working before moving onto the next step:

```shell
$ kubectl get pods --namespace openfaas
NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
alertmanager-74f9b48464-7gvrj        1/1     Running   0          2m13s
basic-auth-plugin-54bbd886f5-fclgn   1/1     Running   0          2m13s
gateway-6f8f5d5c87-tbxns             2/2     Running   0          2m13s
nats-695bf7587-hcbc2                 1/1     Running   0          2m13s
prometheus-577c65f58c-4nvm7          1/1     Running   0          2m13s
queue-worker-b45b85966-g7kpt         1/1     Running   0          2m13s
```

> Now, it is time to deploy our function. The function we are going to deploy is basically receives events for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, it is time to deploy our function. The function we are going to deploy basically receives events for an
```

> infected pod from the _Falcosidekick_ and will delete the infected pod immediately. Before deploying the function we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
infected pod from _Falcosidekick_ and deletes this pod immediately. Before deploying the function we
```

> need some permissions to delete Pod, to get those permissions, we need to create a `ServiceAccount` for it, as it will
> need the right to delete a pod in any namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need some permissions to delete Pod. We create a `ServiceAccount` with right to delete a Pod in any namespace and we'll associate it to our function:
```

```shell
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: falco-pod-delete
  namespace: openfaas-fn
---
kind: ClusterRole
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: falco-pod-delete-cluster-role
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "delete"]
---
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: falco-pod-delete-cluster-role-binding
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: falco-pod-delete-cluster-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: falco-pod-delete
    namespace: openfaas-fn
EOF
```

Now, we are ready to deploy our _falco-pod-delete_ function, before doing that we need to log into _OpenFaaS Gateway_
first:

```shell
$ kubectl port-forward -n openfaas svc/gateway 8080:8080 &
$  PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret -n openfaas basic-auth -o jsonpath="{.data.basic-auth-password}" | base64 --decode; echo)
$echo -n $PASSWORD | faas-cli login --username admin --password-stdin
Calling the OpenFaaS server to validate the credentials...
credentials saved for admin http://127.0.0.1:8080
```

## Install Falco

> Firstly, we'll create the namespace that will both `Falco` and `Falcosidekick`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly, we'll create the namespace that will host both `Falco` and `Falcosidekick`:
```

```shell
$ kubectl create namespace falco
```

> Add the `helm` repo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We add the `helm` repo:
```

| | | | '_ \ / _ \ '_ \| |_ / _` |/ _` \___ \
| |_| | |_) |  __/ | | |  _| (_| | (_| |___) |
 \___/| .__/ \___|_| |_|_|  \__,_|\__,_|____/
      |_|

Function created in folder: falco-pod-delete
Stack file written: falco-pod-delete.yml

Notes:
You have created a new function which uses Golang 1.13.

To include third-party dependencies, use Go modules and use
"--build-arg GO111MODULE=on" with faas-cli build or configure this
via your stack.yml file.

See more: https://docs.openfaas.com/cli/templates/
For detailed examples:
https://github.com/openfaas-incubator/golang-http-template

$ tree -L 2 .
.
├── falco-pod-delete
│ └── handler.go
├── falco-pod-delete.yml
└── template
    ├── golang-http
    └── golang-middleware
```

First, replace the _falco-pod-delete.yml_ with the following content:

```yaml
version: 1.0
provider:
  name: openfaas
  gateway: http://127.0.0.1:8080
functions:
  falco-pod-delete:
    lang: golang-middleware
    handler: ./falco-pod-delete
    image: devopps/falco-pod-delete:latest # be careful this line, it should be your docker id.
    annotations:
      com.openfaas.serviceaccount: falco-pod-delete
    build_args:
      GO111MODULE: on
```

> Once you edit this, let's continue with the code, first we should create _Go Modules_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have edited it, let's continue with the code, first create `go.mod`.
```

```
$ cd falco-pod-delete
$ go mod init falco-pod-delete
go: creating new go.mod: module falco-pod-delete
go: to add module requirements and sums:
        go mod tidy
```

> Then, replace the _handler.go_ with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, replace the `handler.go` with the following content:
```

  Rule         string    `json:"rule"`
  Time         time.Time `json:"time"`
  OutputFields struct {
    ContainerID              string      `json:"container.id"`
    ContainerImageRepository interface{} `json:"container.image.repository"`
    ContainerImageTag        interface{} `json:"container.image.tag"`
    EvtTime                  int64       `json:"evt.time"`
    FdName                   string      `json:"fd.name"`
    K8SNsName                string      `json:"k8s.ns.name"`
    K8SPodName               string      `json:"k8s.pod.name"`
    ProcCmdline              string      `json:"proc.cmdline"`
  } `json:"output_fields"`
}

func Handle(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
  var alert Alert

  if r.Body != nil {
    defer r.Body.Close()

    body, _ := ioutil.ReadAll(r.Body)

    json.Unmarshal(body, &alert)

    podName := alert.OutputFields.K8SPodName
    namespace := alert.OutputFields.K8SNsName

    log.Printf("Deleting pod %s from namespace %s", podName, namespace)
    kubeClient.CoreV1().Pods(namespace).Delete(context.Background(), podName, metaV1.DeleteOptions{})
  }

  w.WriteHeader(http.StatusOK)
  w.Write([]byte("OK"))
}
```

> After that, update your _Go Modules_ by doing _go mod tidy_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, update your _Go Modules_ by doing `go mod tidy`:
```

```shell
$ go mod tidy
go: finding module for package k8s.io/client-go/rest
go: finding module for package k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1
go: finding module for package k8s.io/client-go/kubernetes
go: downloading k8s.io/client-go v0.21.0
go: downloading k8s.io/apimachinery v0.21.0
go: found k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1 in k8s.io/apimachinery v0.21.0
go: found k8s.io/client-go/kubernetes in k8s.io/client-go v0.21.0
go: found k8s.io/client-go/rest in k8s.io/client-go v0.21.0
go: downloading k8s.io/api v0.21.0
go: downloading golang.org/x/net v0.0.0-20210224082022-3d97a244fca7
go: downloading sigs.k8s.io/structured-merge-diff/v4 v4.1.0
go: downloading golang.org/x/term v0.0.0-20210220032956-6a3ed077a48d
```

Now, you should be able to build, push and deploy your function:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

a823d50a5b72: Layer already exists
060f21486264: Layer already exists
8ea3b23f387b: Layer already exists
latest: digest: sha256:f94abba203232b97cb2873ef5d60eec31b52d492f3d3ee106d6a9877bf131d95 size: 1782
[0] < Pushing falco-pod-delete [devopps/falco-pod-delete:latest] done.
[0] Worker done.

Deploying: falco-pod-delete.

Deployed. 202 Accepted.
URL: http://127.0.0.1:8080/function/falco-pod-delete
```

Verify if everything is working before moving onto the next step:

```shell
$ kubectl get pods --namespace openfaas-fn
NAME                                READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
falco-pod-delete-7dc9f5fbb8-gbfk7   1/1     Running   0          27s
```

## Test our function

We start by creating a dumb pod:

```shell
$ kubectl run alpine --namespace default --image=alpine --restart='Never' -- sh -c "sleep 600"
pod/alpine created
```

```shell
$ kubectl get pods --namespace default
AME     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
alpine   1/1     Running   0          11s
```

Let's run a *shell* command inside and see what happens:

```shell
$ kubectl exec -i --tty alpine --namespace default -- sh -c "uptime"

19:27:21 up 50 min,  load average: 0.11, 0.12, 0.11
```

> As expected we got the result of our command, but, if get the status of the pod now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As expected we got the result of our command, but, if we get the status of the pod we retrieve:
```
